h1. Textpattern CMS admin area stylesheet guide (v4.5)

The purpose of this guide is to audit and document the current UI elements used within the admin-side of "Textpattern CMS":http://textpattern.com in order to streamline development, avoid conflicts and inconsistencies, and as a reference for admin theme authors and plugin authors.

h2. Id selectors: page-specific

Each page within the admin-side should have an id attribute applied to the @<body>@ tag, prefixed with 'page-'. This prefix *should not* be used anywhere else on the page apart from the @<body>@ tag.

Additional admin-side pages created by plugin authors should respect the following naming convention for the @<body>@ tag id attribute:

bc. #page-authorprefix_pluginname

Below are the reserved id tags used by the core admin-side pages of Textpattern, these *should not* be duplicated in any other admin-side page.

bc. #page-login

Used on @<body>@ tag of the login page.

bc. #page-reset_password

Used on @<body>@ tag of the login > reset password page.

bc. #page-article

Used on @<body>@ tag of the content > write page.

bc. #page-list

Used on @<body>@ tag of the content > article list page.

bc. #page-category

Used on @<body>@ tag of the content > category page.

bc. #page-image

Used on @<body>@ tag of the content > images page.

bc. #page-file

Used on @<body>@ tag of the content > files page.

bc. #page-link

Used on @<body>@ tag of the content > links page.

bc. #page-discuss

Used on @<body>@ tag of the content > comments page.

bc. #page-section

Used on @<body>@ tag of the presentation > sections page.

bc. #page-page

Used on @<body>@ tag of the presentation > page templates page.

bc. #page-form

Used on @<body>@ tag of the presentation > form templates page.

bc. #page-css

Used on @<body>@ tag of the presentation > CSS styles page.

bc. #page-diag

Used on @<body>@ tag of the admin > diagnostics page.

bc. #page-prefs

Used on @<body>@ tag of the admin > preferences page.

bc. #page-lang

Used on @<body>@ tag of the admin > languages page.

bc. #page-admin

Used on @<body>@ tag of the admin > users page.

bc. #page-log

Used on @<body>@ tag of the admin > visitor logs page.

bc. #page-plugin

Used on @<body>@ tag of the admin > plugins page.

bc. #page-import

Used on @<body>@ tag of the admin > import page.

*CURRENTLY INCOMPLETE - MORE TEXT TO BE ADDED SOON*

h2. Id selectors: global

bc. #messagepane

h4. Usage:

Displaying alert messages above @div.txp-container@. The child @span@ can have a @class="error"@ or @class="warning"@ or @class="success"@ depending on the context of the message.

h4. Current code structure example:

bc. <div id="messagepane">
  <span id='message' class='success'>File <strong>test-file.zip</strong> updated.</span>
</div>

h4. Notes:

# @id="message"@ on the child @span@ does not seem to be used for styling purposes. Need clarification of its use.
# This method is not currently consistent - it is not implemented on the login pages (login, logout, password request).

bc. #edit

Needs auditing and further clarification - seems to be used inconsistently throughout the admin pages. Could easily be replaced by proper use and targeting of the @.edit-pane@ class instead (see below).

bc. #list

Needs auditing and further clarification - seems to be used inconsistently throughout the admin pages. Could easily be replaced by proper use and targeting of the @.list@ class instead (see below).

bc. #content_switcher

h4. Usage:

Used on a page with a list of switchable content, for example the list of available page templates within 'pages' page.

*CURRENTLY INCOMPLETE - MORE TEXT TO BE ADDED SOON*

h2. Class selectors: global

bc. .txp-container

TBC

bc. .edit-pane

TBC

bc. .list

TBC

bc. .txp-list

Unnecessary class, functionality can be incorporated into @.list@ tag above instead. Recommend removal.

bc. .txp-control-panel

TBC

bc. .txp-navigation

TBC

*CURRENTLY INCOMPLETE - MORE TEXT TO BE ADDED SOON*

h2. Other UI usage examples

h3. Tables

h4. Usage:

Tabular data lists.

h4. Current code structure example:

bc. <table cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0" border="0" id="list" align="center" class="list" width="90%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th></th>
      <th></th>
      <th></th>
      ...
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
      ...
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  <tbody>
    <tr class="odd">
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
      ...
    </tr>
    <tr class="even">
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
      ...
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

h4. Recommended future code structure:

bc. <table class="list">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col"></th>
      <th scope="col"></th>
      <th scope="col"></th>
      ...
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
      ...
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  <tbody>
    <tr class="odd">
      <th scope="row"></th>
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
      ...
    </tr>
    <tr class="even">
      <th scope="row"></th>
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
      ...
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

h4. Notes:

# The attributes @cellpadding@, @cellspacing@, @border@, @align@ and @width@ are unnecessary and can (and should) be styled with CSS instead.
# A @scope@ attribute should be applied to cells where appropriate (accessibility).
# Removal of @id="list"@, as it duplicates functionality of @class="list"@.

*CURRENTLY INCOMPLETE - MORE TEXT TO BE ADDED SOON*